class-01/README.md, before:

# Network Traffic Analysis with Wireshark

## Overview

The Kali Linux distribution includes a plethora of offensive security software tools that you will find useful in this course. Wielded by pentesters, ethical hackers, forensics investigators, and enthusiasts, Kali Linux is the popular go-to weapon for performing all manner of cyber attacks. Today you will use one of its most infamous tools, Wireshark.

Wireshark is capable of network traffic analysis, and is generally regarded as a computer forensics tool for its ability to "zoom in" and scrutinize network traffic at the lowest level.

## Class Outline

- Guest Presentation: Implicit Bias
- Course Overview of Ops 301
- Discussion: Career Outcomes of Ops 301
- Lecture Today's Lab Topic
- Demo Today's Lab Topic
- Lab

## Learning Objectives

### Students will be able to

#### Describe and Define

- OSI model
- Kali Linux
- Wireshark
- PCAP
- Packet

#### Execute

- Capture network traffic using Wireshark
- Analyze network traffic and identify protocols of packets
- Analyze a packet and identify its components
- Export network traffic as a PCAP file

## Helpful Resources

- [Wireshark](https://www.wireshark.org/)
- [Wireshark Cheat Sheet](https://www.comparitech.com/net-admin/wireshark-cheat-sheet/)
- [Kali Linux](https://www.kali.org/downloads/)

Commit message:

updates README with notes section and more Define and Describe terms

class-01/README.md, after:

# Network Traffic Analysis with Wireshark

## Overview

The Kali Linux distribution includes a plethora of offensive security software tools that you will find useful in this course. Wielded by pentesters, ethical hackers, forensics investigators, and enthusiasts, Kali Linux is the popular go-to weapon for performing all manner of cyber attacks. Today you will use one of its most infamous tools, Wireshark.

Wireshark is capable of network traffic analysis, and is generally regarded as a computer forensics tool for its ability to "zoom in" and scrutinize network traffic at the lowest level.

## Class Outline

- Guest Presentation: Implicit Bias
- Course Overview of Ops 301
- Discussion: Career Outcomes of Ops 301
- Lecture Today's Lab Topic
- Demo Today's Lab Topic
- Lab

## Learning Objectives

### Students will be able to

#### Describe and Define

- OSI model
- NTA
- ACK
- Kali Linux
- Wireshark
- PCAP
- Packet

#### Execute

- Deploy a Kali Linux VM
- Capture network traffic using Wireshark
- Analyze network traffic and identify protocols of packets
- Analyze a packet and identify its components
- Export network traffic as a PCAP file


## Notes

1. What are the different parts that make up a TCP packet?

1. What happens during the TCP Handshake?

1. What is an HTTP request?

1. What is an HTTP response?

1. What components make up the HTTP header?

1. What is so special about the CERN website?

## Helpful Resources

- [Wireshark](https://www.wireshark.org/)
- [Wireshark Cheat Sheet](https://www.comparitech.com/net-admin/wireshark-cheat-sheet/)
- [Kali Linux](https://www.kali.org/downloads/)
